.TH REG 1 "2026-06-01" "libreg 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
reg \- offline Windows registry tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reg
.I operation
.RI [ key ]
.RI [ arguments ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reg
reads and edits Windows registry hive files on Linux, modeled on the Windows
.BR reg.exe .
There is no live registry on Linux, so registry roots (HKLM, HKCU, and the
others) are mapped to hive files through a mount map (see
.BR FILES ).
A
.B \-\-hive
.I FILE
option overrides the map for one off files.
.SH OPERATIONS
.TP
.BI "reg query " "Key " "[/v Name | /ve] [/s] [/f Pattern [/k|/d] [/c] [/e]] [/t Type]"
Print a key, its values, and optionally its subtree
.RB ( /s ).
With
.B /f
the subtree is searched for
.IR Pattern :
.B /k
restricts the search to key names,
.B /d
to value data, the default searches key names, value names, and data.
.B /c
is case sensitive,
.B /e
requires an exact match, and
.B /t
restricts to a value type. A search exits with status 1 if nothing matched.
.TP
.BI "reg add " "Key " "[/v Name | /ve] [/t Type] [/d Data] [/s Sep] [/f]"
Create a key, and optionally set a value. Without
.B /f
an existing value is not overwritten.
.TP
.BI "reg delete " "Key " "[/v Name | /ve | /va] [/f]"
Delete a value, all values
.RB ( /va ),
or the whole key.
.TP
.BI "reg copy " "Src Dest " "[/s] [/f]"
Copy a key (and with
.B /s
its subtree) within or across hives.
.TP
.BI "reg save " "Key File"
Write a key and its subtree to a new hive file.
.TP
.BI "reg restore " "Key File"
Replace a key with the contents of a hive file.
.TP
.BI "reg load " "Key File"
Mount a hive file at
.I Key
(adds a mount-map entry).
.TP
.BI "reg unload " "Key"
Remove a mount-map entry.
.TP
.BI "reg export " "Key File"
Write a key and its subtree to a
.B .reg
file (UTF-16LE).
.TP
.BI "reg import " "File"
Apply a
.B .reg
file.
.TP
.BI "reg compare " "Key1 Key2 " "[/s] [/oa|/od|/os|/on]"
Compare two keys. Output modes:
.B /od
differences (default),
.B /os
matches,
.B /oa
all,
.B /on
none. Exit status is 0 when identical and 2 when different.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $LIBREG_HIVES
Path to the mount map, if set.
.TP
.B ~/.config/libreg/hives.conf
Default mount map. Each line is
.IR "ROOT\esubpath = /path/to/hive" .
.SH EXIT STATUS
0 on success, 1 on error or an empty search, 2 when
.B reg compare
finds differences.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sc (1),
.BR regedit (1)
