.TH REGEDIT 1 "2026-06-02" "libreg 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
regedit \- web-based offline registry editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regedit
.RB [ \-\-port
.IR N ]
.RB [ \-\-bind
.IR ADDR ]
.RB [ \-\-no\-browser ]
.RB [ \-\-hive
.IR FILE
.RB [ \-\-root
.IR LABEL ]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B regedit
serves a browser based registry editor for offline hive files, modeled on the
Windows registry editor. It offers the same browsing and editing (keys, values
of every REG type, import and export of
.B .reg
files) plus features the core library exposes that the Windows editor does
not: editable SDDL security descriptors, hive structural validation, an on-disk
structure inspector (base block fields and a cell map), and a two-hive diff.
.PP
Hives come from the mount map (see
.BR reg (1)),
or a single
.B \-\-hive
.I FILE
can be served under
.B \-\-root
.I LABEL
(default HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE). Each request opens the hive file, performs its
operation, and saves on edit, so changes persist immediately.
.PP
.B regedit
is a local desktop-style tool, not a background service. Once the server is
listening it opens the UI in your default browser (via
.BR xdg\-open (1)
or an equivalent). On a headless host, or with
.BR \-\-no\-browser ,
it instead prints the URL for you to open by hand.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-port " N"
TCP port to listen on (default 7890).
.TP
.BI \-\-bind " ADDR"
Address to bind (default 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.B \-\-no\-browser
Do not open a browser; print the URL to open instead.
.TP
.BI \-\-hive " FILE"
Serve a single hive file instead of the mount map.
.TP
.BI \-\-root " LABEL"
Root label for the
.B \-\-hive
file.
.SH SECURITY
.B regedit
performs no authentication and edits hive files directly. It binds 127.0.0.1
by default; only bind a non-loopback address if you have put it behind an
authenticating reverse proxy.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR reg (1),
.BR winsc (1)
