.TH REGMOUNT 1 "2026-06-02" "libreg 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
regmount \- generate a libreg mount map by inspecting hive files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regmount
.I PATH
.RB [ \-o
.IR FILE ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B regmount
inspects offline registry hive files and generates a mount map binding each
hive to the registry root and subpath it belongs at. An offline hive does not
record where it hangs in the live registry, so
.B regmount
identifies it two ways: by its conventional file name
.RB ( SYSTEM ,
.BR SOFTWARE ,
.BR SAM ,
.BR SECURITY ,
.BR NTUSER.DAT ,
.BR UsrClass.dat ,
and so on) and by the shape of its top-level keys (a
.B Select
plus a
.B ControlSet001
is a SYSTEM hive, a
.B Microsoft
plus a
.B Classes
is SOFTWARE, and so on). The file name is the primary signal; the contents
confirm it or classify a hive whose name is nonstandard.
.PP
.I PATH
is either a single hive file or a directory of hives, for example a mounted
Windows
.I System32\econfig
directory or a user profile. The generated map is printed to standard output in
the
.I hives.conf
format. Hives that cannot be placed, and any whose mount point collides with a
hive already mapped, are written as comments so the result stays valid and you
can finish it by hand. Registry transaction logs and similar companions
.RI ( *.LOG ,
.IR *.LOG1 ,
.IR *.regtrans-ms ,
.IR *.blf )
are skipped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-o " FILE" "\fR,\fP \-\-output " FILE
Also write the generated map to
.IR FILE .
Refuses to overwrite an existing file unless
.B \-f
is given.
.TP
.B \-r\fR,\fP \-\-recursive
Recurse into subdirectories when
.I PATH
is a directory.
.TP
.B \-f\fR,\fP \-\-force
Overwrite the
.B \-o
file if it already exists.
.TP
.B \-h\fR,\fP \-\-help
Show usage and exit.
.SH USAGE
Point
.B $LIBREG_HIVES
at the written file, or copy it to
.IR ~/.config/libreg/hives.conf ,
to use it with
.BR reg (1),
.BR winsc (1),
and
.BR regedit (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR reg (1),
.BR winsc (1),
.BR regedit (1)
