.TH REGSC 1 "2026-06-02" "libreg 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
regsc \- offline Windows service configuration tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B regsc
.I command
.RI [ service ]
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B regsc
edits Windows service definitions stored in a registry
.B SYSTEM
hive, modeled on the Windows
.BR sc.exe .
It is named
.B regsc
(part of the reg* tool family) to avoid the name clash with the
.BR sc (1)
spreadsheet calculator that Debian and Ubuntu ship. When no other package
owns that name, installation adds a
.B sc
alias, so
.B sc create ...
keeps working with sc.exe-identical syntax.
.PP
Services live under
.IR "HKLM\eSYSTEM\e<ControlSet>\eServices\e<name>" .
Because there is no running Service Control Manager on Linux, only the static,
registry-backed verbs are supported. The runtime verbs
.RB ( start ,
.BR stop ,
.BR pause ,
.BR continue )
report that they are not available offline.
.PP
The SYSTEM hive is found through the
.B HKLM\eSYSTEM
mount-map entry, or a
.B \-\-hive
.I FILE
override. The control set defaults to
.B ControlSet001
and is selected with
.B \-\-controlset
.IR N .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.BI "regsc create " "name " "binPath= path [type= ...] [start= ...] [error= ...] [DisplayName= ...] [depend= a/b] [obj= ...] [group= ...]"
Create a service key with the given configuration. Note the
.BR "key= value"
form: a space follows the equals sign, as in
.BR sc.exe .
.TP
.BI "regsc config " "name " "[options]"
Change an existing service's configuration.
.TP
.BI "regsc delete " "name"
Delete a service.
.TP
.BI "regsc qc " "name"
Print a service's configuration.
.TP
.BI "regsc query " "[name]"
List services or print one. The dynamic run state is not available offline.
.TP
.BI "regsc description " "name text"
Set a service's description.
.SH OPTION VALUES
.TP
.B type=
own, share, kernel, filesys, rec, interact, userown, usershare.
.TP
.B start=
boot, system, auto, demand, disabled.
.TP
.B error=
ignore, normal, severe, critical.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR reg (1),
.BR regedit (1)
